# Design and Optimization of Spiral Cladding Photonic Crystal Fiber Based Sensor for Gas Sensing Applications

## https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8436618

Description:

The development of highly-sensitive and miniaturized sensors that capable of real-time analytes detection is highly desirable. Nowadays, toxic or colorless gas detection, air pollution monitoring, harmful chemical, pressure, strain, humidity, and temperature sensors based on Photonic Crystal Fibre (PCF) are increasing rapidly due to its compact structure, fast response and efficient light controlling capabilities. The propagating light through the PCF can be controlled by varying the structural parameters and as a result, evanescent field can be enhanced significantly which is the main component of the PCF based gas sensors. All the numerical parameters like diameters and pitches of both center and cladding in spiral Photonic Crystal Fibre (S-PCF) have been shifted with an advanced structure. Using Finite Element Method (FEM), it can be secured that the proposed S-PCF demonstrates high relative sensitivity and low confinement loss. The aim of this project is to describe the principle operation of S-PCF based gas sensors and to discuss the important properties of the sensor.

Photonic crystal fiber with spiral cladding has been induced as gas based sensor made of micro-structure shaped cladding and core comprises circular air filled holes. The described S-PCF constructed with double layer core of circular geometry surrounded by seven-layer circular cladding. The aggregate recreation procedure of the S-PCF is finished by utilizing a full vector method of finite element amidst perfectly matched layer limit precondition. All the numerical values analogous to the radii and pitches of center and outer cladding are induced with advanced framework. On further analysis, numeral testing S-PCF demonstrates high value relative sensitivity along with minimum confinement loss. The authorized results affirm the relative sensitivity as 58.02% along with the confinement loss as 0.094x 10-2 at 1.33 um wavelength. Furthermore, various properties like birefringence, effective modal area, non-linearity and V parameter are also observed.
